Edit pass for consistency (#307)
devcontainers/devcontainers.github.io: _implementors/spec.md

index: 1
---

The purpose of the **Development Container Specification** is to provide a way to enrich containers with the content and metadata necessary to enable development inside them. These container **environments** should be easy to use, create, and recreate. 

A **development container** is a container in which a user can develop an application. Tools that want to implement this specification should provide a set of features/commands that give more flexibility to users and allow **development containers** to scale to large development groups.

An **environment** is defined as a logical instance of one or more **development containers**, along with any needed side-car containers. An environment is based on one set of metadata that can be managed as a single unit. Users can create multiple **environments** from the same configuration metadata for different purposes.

# <a href="#metadata" name="metadata" class="anchor"> Metadata </a>

> Development containers allow one to define a repeatable development environment for a user or team of developers that includes the execution environment the application needs. A development container defines an environment in which you develop your application before you are ready to deploy. While deployment and development containers may resemble one another, you may not want to include tools in a deployment image that you use during development and you may need to use different secrets or other settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Development Container Spec allows one to define a repeatable development environment for a user or team of developers that includes the execution environment the application needs. A development container defines an environment in which you develop your application before you are ready to deploy. While deployment and development containers may resemble one another, you may not want to include tools in a deployment image that you use during development and you may need to use different secrets or other settings. 
```

> Singular "Container" rather than "Containers" (plural feels awkward)

Author: I think this case would be plural though, since "dev containers" as a concept allow this. Or we'd need to specifically say "The Development Container Spec allows..." Thoughts?

Reviewer: > "The Development Container Spec allows..."

I like ^

# <a href="#other-options" name="other-options" class="anchor"> Other options </a>

In addition to the configuration options explained above, there are other settings that apply when creating development containers to facilitate their use by developers. 

A complete list of available metadata properties and their purposes can be found in the [`devcontainer.json` reference](https://aka.ms/devcontainer.json). However, we will describe the critical ones below in more detail.

## <a href="#features" name="features" class="anchor"> Features</a>

Development container "Features" are self-contained, shareable units of installation code and development container configuration. The name comes from the idea that referencing one of them allows you to quickly and easily add more tooling, runtime, or library "features" into your development container for you or your collaborators to use.

They are applied to container images as a secondary build step and can affect a number of dev container configuration settings. See the [Features documentation](../features) for more details.

## <a href="#environment-variables" name="environment-variables" class="anchor"> Environment variables </a>

> Environment variables can be set at different points in the dev container lifecycle. With this in mind, development containers support two classes of environment variables:

Reviewer: Interesting, TIL that the spec usually refers to dev containers as `development containers`. Hah! I always use `dev containers` while talking about it. 😄

Author: I also usually use "dev containers" - it's a lot faster! I think it's fine to keep the full name or shorter name, as long as we're consistent with plural, caps, and bolding as possible.
